v25.4 changes to logging channels (#20434)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v25.4/logging-overview.md

This allows you to group channels that log related information (e.g., operational, security, or SQL events) into their own sinks. Each sink can output to a predetermined destination where the logs can be collected and parsed. For usage examples, see [Logging Use Cases]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging-use-cases.md %}).

| Channel                                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|-----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | <a id="changefeed"></a><span class="version-tag">New in v25.4:</span> [`CHANGEFEED`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %})                | Changefeed events.<br><br>**Note**: [Changefeed telemetry events]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#changefeed-telemetry-events) currently sent to the [`TELEMETRY`](#telemetry) channel will be routed to this channel in a future release.<br>To assess potential downstream impacts on your logging setup and pipelines, set the [`log.channel_compatibility_mode.enabled`](#log-channel_compatibility_mode-enabled) cluster setting to `false` in a non-production environment. This will log these events to this `CHANGEFEED` channel. |

Author: Yes, [Changefeed telemetry events](https://deploy-preview-20434--cockroachdb-docs.netlify.app/docs/v25.4/eventlog#changefeed-telemetry-events) which is linked in the previous sentence.

> | <a id="changefeed"></a><span class="version-tag">New in v25.4:</span> [`CHANGEFEED`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %})                | Changefeed events.<br><br>**Note**: [Changefeed telemetry events]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#changefeed-telemetry-events) currently sent to the [`TELEMETRY`](#telemetry) channel will be routed to this channel in a future release.<br>To prepare for that change and assess potential downstream impacts on your logging setup and pipelines, set the [`log.channel_compatibility_mode.enabled`](#log-channel_compatibility_mode-enabled) cluster setting to `false` in a non-production environment. This will log these events to this `CHANGEFEED` channel. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <a id="changefeed"></a><span class="version-tag">New in v25.4:</span> [`CHANGEFEED`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %})                | Changefeed events.<br><br>**Note**: [Changefeed telemetry events]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#changefeed-telemetry-events), which are sent to the [`TELEMETRY`](#telemetry) channel by default in {{ page.version.version }} and prior versions, will be routed to this channel by default in a future release.<br>To prepare for that change and assess potential downstream impacts on your logging setup and pipelines, set the [`log.channel_compatibility_mode.enabled`](#log-channel_compatibility_mode-enabled) cluster setting to `false` in a non-production environment. This will log these events to this `CHANGEFEED` channel. |
```

| [`DEV`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %}#dev)                           | Uncategorized and debug messages.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| [`KV_DISTRIBUTION`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %}#kv_distribution)   | Data distribution events, such as moving [replicas]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-replica) between [stores]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-start.md %}#store) in a cluster, adding replicas to [ranges]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/overview.md %}#range), and removing replicas from ranges. |

> | <a id="kv_exec"></a><span class="version-tag">New in v25.4:</span> [`KV_EXEC`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %})                   | KV execution events that are not related to distribution.|

Author: No, I have no information about KV_EXEC events. KV_EXEC events are not even described in the [master branch version of the eventlog.md](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/blob/master/docs/generated/eventlog.md)

| [`SQL_SCHEMA`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %}#sql_schema)             | Database, schema, table, sequence, view, and type creation; changes to table columns and sequence parameters.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| [`STORAGE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %}#storage)                   | Low-level storage logs from the [Pebble storage engine]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/storage-layer.md %}#pebble).                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

> | <a id="telemetry"></a>[`TELEMETRY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %}#telemetry)               | Telemetry events for internal usage, except for [`sampled_query`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#sampled_query) and [`sampled_transaction`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#sampled_transaction) events which may be [logged externally to Datadog]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/log-sql-activity-to-datadog.md %}).<br><br>**Note**: `sampled_query` and `sampled_transaction` events currently sent to this channel will be routed to the [`SQL_EXEC`](#sql_exec) channel in a future release. [Changefeed telemetry events]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#changefeed-telemetry-events) currently sent to this channel will be routed to the [`CHANGEFEED`](#changefeed) channel in a future release.<br>To prepare for that change and assess potential downstream impacts on your logging setup and pipelines, set the [`log.channel_compatibility_mode.enabled`](#log-channel_compatibility_mode-enabled) cluster setting to `false` in a non-production environment. This will log these events to the [`SQL_EXEC`](#sql_exec) channel. |

Author: updated

| [`USER_ADMIN`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %}#user_admin)             | Changes to users, roles, and authentication credentials.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Logging channels are analogous to [logging facilities in Syslog](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog) or [logging services in Datadog](https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_collection/?tab=http#reserved-attributes). For more details on the contents of each logging channel, see the [Logging reference]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %}#logging-channels).

### `log.channel_compatibility_mode.enabled`

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v25.4" %} The `log.channel_compatibility_mode.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) controls logging channel behavior. When set to:

> - `true` (default): Logs are sent to the standard [logging channels](#logging-channels). This reflects the current behavior. Specifically, the system sends:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `true` (default): Logs are sent to the standard [logging channels](#logging-channels). This reflects the current behavior. Specifically, the system sends:
```

Unclear to me what we mean by "reflects the current behavior". Are we saying that this maintains the behavior from version v25.3? If so, can we say that more directly, and better yet, can we say, 'maintains the behavior in v25.3 and prior supported versions'—or an explicit range of versions? This could be more helpful to those who skip Innovation releases, I think.

  - [Changefeed telemetry events]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#changefeed-telemetry-events) are sent to the [`TELEMETRY`](#telemetry) channel.
  - [SQL Slow Query Log]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#sql-slow-query-log) and [SQL Slow Query Log (Internal)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#sql-slow-query-log-internal) events are sent to the [`SQL_PERF`](#sql_perf) and [`SQL_INTERNAL_PERF`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging.md %}#sql_internal_perf) channels, respectively.
  - [`sampled_query`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#sampled_query) and [`sampled_transaction`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/eventlog.md %}#sampled_transaction) events are sent to the [`TELEMETRY`](#telemetry) channel.

> - `false`: Logs are sent to different logging channels as part of the logging channel consolidation effort. Specifically:

Reviewer 3: Logs are sent to the updated logging channels.

Remove "logging channel consolidation effort" users don't know about this
